OK and share. My screen will start
in one or two minutes waiting for
other student to join the class.
Meanwhile just wanted to share my screen.
Morning Aria. Uh, and.
Also, if you have any question about
the lab or lecture assignments or
any issue related to the course,
I'm ready to take your questions.
I just wanted to.
Hello I have a question.
Are we gonna be learning how to
make convergence in today's class?
Yes. Today I will.
We're going to practice the
conversion between these codes,
which basically the first few
questions of the lecture assignments.
Yes, then you are able to.
I mean, answer those questions
also will continue on, uh,
one of the topics that we haven't covered.
But it was in the.
Last week's slides.
I don't care condition,
so today we're going to cover that as well.
Also, if you have time,
we will continue with the next
category of the combination logic,
which is about arithmetic.
And as you can see here,
the second category about the
arithmetic and logical operation,
and then next week we move on to the
data transmission digital units.
As you can see, we gradually move
toward building a computer system.
Yes.
So also I'm I'm trying to prepare a,
uh, I mean,
Google documents for today's practice.
So part of the practice today is by.
You so then, uh,
we can practice on how to.
Uh.
How to use the K map in the?
Uh, design. So far we just, uh.
We just know how to use the
K map to simplify a Boolean
expression by creating a region.
But today we are going to see
that in it in an actual design
which is for the code conversion.
Yes, that's a good practice. For this.
OK, so. Let's start up.
Laser point. OK, uh.
We have a few student in the class.
I hope actually the other
student can see the lectures.
Or I mean the next few weeks
they attend the class. Uh.
What's up? Today we continue.
I mean, uh, we started building or
analyzing some specific digital units which
are required for any computer systems.
So far we could design any digital
units for any type of purposes.
But now we want to focus toward
building a computer system.
That's why we designed we
make a category of the unit,
and this is all units.
We said that we have a big
category of combination.
Logic, which basically those sectors that
we design so far is in this category.
In this category,
whatever we put we provide in
the input after some deley and
this course you said that the
delay can be considered as zero.
We can see the output or the result.
Uh,
and then we have another category
which we call sequential logic
which will cover in the future.
In the combination logic we make a
category of based on the purpose of
the unit up for the type of the task
that that digital unit wants to accomplish.
So we said that we have coders.
We have arithmetic analogical
operators and we have.
Uh, sorry yeah.
And we have data transmission diesel units.
We started with introducing what
is coding coding and decoding.
Encoding different coders.
We know the concept now today you
want to design the digital circuit
for that for doing these conversions
between the decimal digits to binary codes.
So.
For instance,
we introduce a Aiken code,
which basically I can code is the same
binary #4 for the zero to 4 decimal digits,
but from four to five.
Actually it becomes the nut of
the five is the nut of the four,
so the binary number 44 you apply,
not because the binary number for five.
So because this is not based
on the radix system,
so it loses the significance based.
The significance is difference here is the
last position is the significance of two.
That's why we call them binary codes.
We don't call them buying
it in numbers anymore,
so but your code 45 is that
not of the binary code 4,
four and four six is the nut
off for three an attachment.
And then another code was access
three which basically says that
the binary code for digital
for a decimal digit is just a.
Decimal digit by three and then
convert it to the binary system.
So for instance 4 zero,
we have the binary code which is
equal to binary number of the free.
Now for 9.
The binary code is this which is
equal to the binary #11 four in
this coding which introduced by
Georges Step it at Bell Labs.
And, uh, you asked another code.
Was this weird code?
I mean it 4 -- 2 -- 1 which basically
says that the first position
has the significance of minus one,
the second one is 2, third, four and eight.
An in based on this coding. For instance,
the code 48 is this because, uh,
last position has the significance of eight,
but the other positions 0,
so and etc. So for instance,
for five we have this binary code based
on this coding and you ask that what's
the benefit of this type of coding?
Is this is strange coding and the
property of these codings is that.
They are called self complementing.
Basically the nice compliments of the.
Decimal digit becomes the one's
complement of the binary system,
so this is an amazing property we are.
We have nice compliment.
10s complement in decimal system,
on the other hand we have the ones
complement twos complement in binary
system and these codings provide a
mapping between these two systems.
If you are given a decimal digit in decimal
system and we want to apply for instance,
nines.
Complements it is equal to
convert the number 2.
For instance access free and apply the
one's complement in the binary system.
So why this nice property is helpful.
Because the first machine or computing
machine that we built was the calculators.
So if you see any I mean calculators.
The calculus has some keys
for decimal digits only.
An some arithmetic functions,
multiplication, addition, etc.
So the user.
Inputs the digits in decimal system.
But inside the Calculator
we have a binary system.
We have the digital circuits which works
based on the end or an all the binary logic.
So how we can do the arithmetic in
decimal system in a way that under the
knees under the digital unit we can
do the arithmetic in binary system.
So that's why we you at these codes
actually is actually invented.
Because, uh, when?
For instance,
when you want to apply 9 -- 2 you
put these keys or these numbers
in the Calculator,
but beneath the calculation
in the digital circuit,
the nine converts to one of
these codes transaction code,
the one converge to the Aiken code,
and then the actual or think it
happens in the binary system,
because for instance if you are
calculating the automatic in.
10s complement for the decimal system
digital unit can do that for you
based on the binary system based
on the Two's complement an etc.
So that's why they produce these codes.
There were another types of code
that they were helpful for.
Transmission of the data.
For instance, if you want to send
some the other through digital media,
for instance through Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth or whatever,
these are the new technologies are although.
But in the old days there there
were some wires and these wires
in the middle of their path.
There there might be a lot of noises.
In order to reduce the noises they propose,
some coding that reduced the chance
to noise to be involved in the actual
data that we are going to transfer.
One of the codes were great code
as we said in the great code.
The benefit is that if you want to
transfer some sequence of numbers,
two consecutive numbers in create code only.
Now they are different, only one bit.
In this example, you can see the Gray code.
For instance,
if you are in a binary number
without any coding from 7 to 8,
you have to change all the bits.
And for instance, you send seven
and after that you send eight the
receiver when received in numbers.
If some noise happens.
The chance of detecting the
error is very low. However,
if you before sending the information,
you convert it to the Gray code
because the assumption or the way
you calculate the Gray code is that
two consecutive numbers only if only
are different in two in one bit.
So for instance here,
if you send seven and then after
that you send eight and if some
noise happened in the head because
you assume that if seven is the
correct code that you receive,
you assume that the next number you
receive gonna be different in only one bit.
So that's why you can easily detect any
noise happening in the received data. So.
That's why we proposed the great code,
and the algorithm was very simple
in the Gray code.
Basically it says that before sending
your decimal number bring it to binary
number and then the first position
from the left or the highest significant bit.
Keep it without any change the same.
However,
the other next digits gonna be the
exclusive or of the last two digits.
So you already saw some example of that.
Uh. The another code for transmission
of the data is the ASCII code.
This is one of the most famous or common code
and transmission of any type of information,
and as you can see this is the
abbreviation for American Standard
Code for Information Interchange.
So you see that this code actually
is invented just for helping
with transmission of the data.
Either numbers, letters or weather.
And this is the coding table.
We said that all these code is coding that
we study are based on the look up table.
Although we can come up with
some algorithm behind that,
such as Gray code or such as exit 3.
But usually they show that
as a look up table.
So in the left side it says that
the source element in the right
side it shows the target element.
But here it was the look up
table for the ASCII code.
Basically it says that if you have a
letter or whatever you want to send,
so you see that this coding
is not just for numbers,
single digits.
Also it is for the letters it assigns
a binary number to each of the letters.
Either there are a numbers or small or
capital letters and also there are some.
Special characters.
We call them control characters.
Basically. For instance,
if you want to go to the next line,
you have a newline character line.
Feed this character if you want to,
for instance, use another control.
For instance, null is,
meaning that nothing.
So if you want you to show a
nothing element in your data,
you use this special character, so.
In order to assign a code for that,
this is the assignment.
So basically the assignment is 1234567,
so 7 bits for each element of this source.
Gonna be assigned and.
This is the modern way to show that,
for instance,
if you want to transmit the digital,
the decimal digits zero
based on the ASCII code,
you have to convert it to the ASCII code
for that which is 0000 up until the first
4 bit and then the last three bit is here.
110 so B5B6 and B7 is 110 so
zero becomes this binary.
Uh, a string.
As a code 40.
The code for six is for
instance 011 and then 0110.
So this is the way that you encode
any letter or any number digital
decimal digit in ASCII code.
And these are the control characters.
The meaning of them.
For instance, formfeed, an,
etc.
You see that these control characters
are very similar to those control
characters in a type typing machine.
So, for instance,
assume that when you want you want
to build a computer system that
you can write a letter based on
the control sequence that were
available for the type machines.
So then. That's why they produced.
These control I mean, uh,
a special characters or
control characters for.
Converting the your letter to binary system.
Why we do that?
Becausw,
imagine you type a letter
in a machine in France,
in a platform designed by IBM,
and then you send the information
to another platform which
was made by another company,
for instance.
I don't know Apple an when you
receive the information in Apple
there should be some standard that the
Apple interpret the binary or your
letters in the same way in the IBM system,
so that's why they come
up with these standards.
Or all the companies that they built
the computer system or typing machines,
etc.
They agree that they followed this standard,
so whenever they want to save the
information and send information
they save based on for instance,
ASCII code.
As a result of if you open any document
this on the ASK code on any computer
machine built based on different
companies you can see the same information.
This is called,
I mean a standard code.
As you can see,
it's a good code for standardize
the transmission of the data.
So that was the introduction,
but now we want to see how can we.
I actually designed the circuit for
these codings and what is the underneath
of the digital circuit for them,
so we call them code conversion
which basically we are
given a look up table for the
conversion or we are given the
algorithm and then we are asked
to convert within these codes.
So, for instance, uh,
we know that the BCD A can access free
and this weird code is open till 9.
But great code.
Actually there is no limit for
that because it applies on the
buy in on any decimal number.
And for BCD, if you go to the 10:10,
is the binary code for
one and binary code for 0.
11 is the binary code for
one and binary code for one.
As you can see here.
So if you move from A to the
numbers greater than nine,
we just Simply put the binary
code for each digit that we
see in the decimal number.
So we can practice on the access three and
this code for decimal numbers more than 9,
but I put here some example
of that for a Canon BCD.
But task is this.
If a user inputs 5 for instance,
this code.
What is going to be the
economic code for that 1011?
So what is the digital circuit
that does this conversion?
So we want to design today these conversions.
For instance,
if you have the BCD,
what is the digital circuit
that does the conversion
to access three and attach?
So this is very simple design question.
So basically you have some inputs.
You have some outputs,
the same procedure that we did so far.
So you have to create the truth table.
You have to put all the possibilities
for the input binary variables and see
what is going to be the outputs and then
simplify them and then draw the circuit.
Very similar to the design so
far we did so I just wanted to.
Go through one example of that and then
you can see that you can design any code
conversion based on this design pattern.
OK, now the example is this.
We are given a code in BCD.
Or binary coded decimal and we
want to create the code for exit 3.
Here is the truth table.
So in the input the BCD is a code or
binary code that only has four positions
or 4 bits anet codes from zero up until 9.
And the task is that if I'm
given a number or a code in BCD,
what is the code in excess three?
So if it is zero,
the code in excess three is.
Basically we add free and make it binary.
So add three binary
becomes the binary #4 free.
So the code for one in BCD if you
convert it to the exit 3 becomes 4.
An etc up until 9.
So you would ask that.
Whenever we want to design A circuit,
we put all the possibilities in the input.
But here in the input,
although we have four variables.
We know that with given
four variables in the input,
the number of possibilities
is 2 to the power of four,
which is 16 different rows.
But here we only have 029, which is 10 rows.
What are the remaining rows?
So the remaining rows are here.
For instance the Rose,
the possibility for 0101.
And then 11/12 of until 15.
In the BCD there is no such a code.
You said that the city is the
code from zero to 9,
so there is no quote for 10.
If you're given the decimal #10,
we put the binary code for
one and binary code for 0,
but here we don't have such a code in BCD.
If you are given such a
possibility in the input,
what would be the excess three of that?
So this is the moment that the
first moment that we see in practice
when we design some circuits,
there might be some situations that.
There are some possibilities in the input,
but in the question there is no
definition or there is no hint about
what is going to be the output.
So for instance,
here we know that if you're
given binary code 40,
the output gonna be the binary code for free,
because we are converting to exit 3.
But if you are given the
binary code this 11010.
There is no conversion from this
code to the excess 3 because
this is not a valid code in BCD,
but it is a possibility for
four binary variables.
So this is called a don't care conditions.
As you can see here,
don't care conditions in practice.
Sometimes the question or the guy that
asked us to design A circuit doesn't
specify what is going to be the output.
If you're given this input as as a result,
we don't know what is going to be the app,
and we call these outputs that are
not known don't care conditions.
And the truth table for such a case,
we call that incompletely
specified functions.
So basically the truth table is not complete,
the right side,
which is for the output
functions are not complete.
We don't know the output for some rows.
So and then we call them don't care
condition and usually in the truth
table will show them by this symbol.
Dissemble is not X is not the binary
variable, it's just a notation to
show that this cell is not known.
That's it, it doesn't mean
that the binary variable X.
It just means that there is a.
We don't. We are not certain about
the value of that cell in the output,
so as a result the truth table for
BCD to excess three becomes like this
for all these rows that the input.
Doesn't specify for us in the
question that what is going to
be the output we call them.
Don't care conditions.
All these cells are don't care conditions.
And the reason is that because the input,
although it may happen in the
input with four binary variables.
But such code is not a valid BCD code.
As a result, we don't have
excess 3 code for that. So.
Now we have to start designing the circuit
so very similar to so with it so far,
so we write it based on the SOP for example
and then put it a simplified that based
on the algebra Boolean algebra or using
the K map and then or withdraw the circuit.
Here we have four output
functions F1F2F3F four.
In this question we rename
it based on the WXYZ.
It's just a name.
We said that the output
function can have any names.
So we have one function 234 output functions.
And we have to write 4A Boolean
expression for each of the functions.
So let's start with the W.
So the W. We want to write at the
aesopi aesopi means that those
entries that makes the output one.
So what are those outputs?
So let me change the.
So this is the W, so it becomes
one in this case, in this case.
And this and this and this.
So what are these mean terms?
Midterm in the input.
We have midterm 567.
8:00 and 9:00 so these are the
midterms that makes the W 1.
So for now we don't care about these.
Don't care conditions.
We only care about those entries.
That makes it one the midterms.
And so we write it down here.
These are the midterms
that makes the output one.
And then we add the cells that we
don't know the value or because
the question doesn't specify what's
going to be the output unknown
cells or don't care conditions.
So we just simply say that these are.
They don't care.
So usually we show that with
D don't care conditions.
These are the.
Rose or them in terms that the
values are not specified.
So let's back to the truth table.
This is the mission 1010 which is
mid term 10 Eleven 12 up until 15.
So these are the cells that we
call them don't care conditions.
Analyze and we surely like this.
Now we know the Boolean expression, so we
have four binary variables in the input.
In order to simplify the Boolean expression,
we need the four variable Cana map.
So. The CD goes to the column side AB,
go to the row side. As you can see here.
And then the meters are.
We said that the order matters
01234567 up until 15th.
For those midterms.
That makes it one, we put the cell one.
As you can see here.
567 89
and also those that are not one.
So basically they are 0.
Ann about the don't care conditions.
You simply just put the that element.
That notation that says that
unknown value so the unknown
values start from the Donker 10 so.
Don't know mid term 11.
Don't know what is the
value and then twelve,
1314 and 15 all these cells.
Or unknown.
Now we want to simplify that.
The amazing thing about the
don't care condition is that
because the value is unknown,
we can assume that they are one.
And this doesn't raise any problem,
because the in the design the question
doesn't specify any value for these outputs,
so we can make an assumption
that maybe the value is 1,
although their value are unknown.
Don't care conditions, but we can say
that we can assume that they are one,
and nothing actually happens.
There's if we assume that they are one.
It's not against the design.
Because it's already unknown so.
And then if you assume that they are one,
so let's assume that they are one.
And be careful, we assume that they are one,
but they are not actually one.
We assume that they are one. Why?
Because if we assume that they are one,
it helps us to more simplification.
We can create larger region to simplify,
so as you can see here,
if you assume that these two cells are one,
we can create a.
Shared vision like this.
If we assume that these cells are one,
as you can see here,
we can assume that there is a.
Shared region.
Like this?
And also there's one left here we
have to cover this one as well,
so we can use this region,
which is a small and then
we can extend it like this.
And again, because we can
assume that they don't care.
Conditions are one.
We can extend it like this.
So that's the amazing property
of the don't care conditions.
We exploit the fact that although
the guy that asked us to design the
circuit doesn't specify any output,
we can assume that there are one,
and it helps us to more simplification.
And if you write it,
it becomes this simplified version,
so this big cell let me
raise them so this big cell.
At this peaks region is the value of C&D
doesn't matter because both are zero or one.
The value of P doesn't matter
because it is either zero or one.
The only thing matters.
The value of a.
And then you put a or. BC.
So this if you put this region.
In this region, the value of.
C doesn't matter because
he is either zero or one,
but the value of T is 1.
An in the role wise,
the value of B is always one.
The value of a doesn't matter,
so it becomes BC.
Sorry busy this one.
And the next region is this which is beast.
So now you see the concept
of the donkey conditions.
They don't care.
Conditions only happens.
In practice sometimes added
the output is not specified,
but we can assume that there are one
when we are writing the aesopi and
then we put them in the corner map
in order to make it more simplified
for the Boolean expression.
So this was only for the W.
Now next move on to the next function,
which is so based on the truth table.
The next output function is X.
So this is F1. This is F2.
Now we have to do the X as
the second output function.
Oh, for the next One X.
So let me just. Yeah.
X becomes one in what? Midterms?
These are the midterms that makes the XY.
So let's back to the truth table.
So these are the midterms that makes the X1.
So meeting 1234 and then
nine and all the other.
From 10 to 15 are don't cares.
So we write it like this. This is X.
Written 12349 and these are the dunkers you
see the Don't cares actually is the same.
It's not a, I mean always the case.
Sometimes they don't.
Cares are different for
different output functions,
but in this design they don't cares are the
same for all the four output functions.
And then a. As you can see here,
you put the midterms once.
Once Tan one is one and two is one
and three is 1. Four and then nine.
Here is 1. Now you have to simplify that.
Without the don't care condition,
you can only create this region and
then this region and then this region.
And, uh, this region.
If you do not consider that,
don't care conditions and then you
can write the simplified version.
However, as we said,
because they don't care,
condition is unknown value.
We can assume that there are one,
so these X can be assumed that they are one.
And then now we can simplify.
So if we do simplify.
This is the huge region we can do.
And then, uh. This one.
And for this we have to
cover this one as well.
You see, if you do not see
that don't care condition,
you only can have this region.
However, if we assume that they don't
care conditions or one we can create.
This larger region.
Which has with removing another binary
variable in the simplified version.
And this is the simplified version of.
This Apple function.
The next is the 2nd output function Y,
so these are the midterms that
makes Y one in the output.
And these are the don't care
condition the same as previous
one and then again in the
kernel map of four variables.
You can assume that they don't care.
Conditions are one.
And then simplify that.
One thing you have to be careful is
that in the exam or in the notations
that you want to present the don't care
conditions in the colormap anywhere.
If you are asked. Uh.
Although I assume that they are one,
but you shouldn't write it one.
You have to write it as the disassemble.
But you assume that they are
one and then simplify that.
So be careful about that.
That's why in the economy map.
That needed in the column up here.
This is the picture from the book.
You could say that why in the
book they Simply put one in the
donkey conditions because in the
correct sense these are unknown.
But when you do a simplification
you assume that they are one,
so you shouldn't just write one.
Assume that they are one you imagine
there are one and then do simplification.
Yes, as soon as I said yes, uh,
about the don't care conditions.
Whatever that helps you
to more simplification,
you can assume that they are one.
Usually, I assume that all of them are one.
But you could say that no,
I just assume that those
that are helping me for more
simplification or one no difference.
Oh wow, Tatiana, correct.
Yes we are going to practice that today too.
Yes, correct, you know.
In the same sense,
if you are asked to design the
circuit based on the Max term.
Then we can assume that they are zero and
we see that in the next few slides, correct?
Yes. And the last output function is Z,
so these are the meetings that makes the Z1.
So let's back to the truth table.
Just as a reminder, this is the Z,
the last output function.
These are the midterms that makes the Z1.
So 02486 and eight.
So let's back to.
Yes, these are limited as next
one and these are the donkey
conditions and again as you can
see here in this simplification
this don't care condition and
these two don't care condition
helped form or simplification.
Yeah. You see here it becomes deprime.
So if I do not consider
these don't care conditions.
If I want to simplify that,
the only thing I can do is that.
This is the region. So it becomes a.
What is this region?
So Z becomes.
Anybody in the chat box?
What is this region?
So the value of C is always 0,
but the value of sorry,
the value of T is 0.
The value of CR is either zero or one.
So here we have in the
column we have. The bar.
And then in the row side we have the B is
either zero or one, so doesn't matter.
A is always 0, so we have a bar.
D bar yeah,
and then what is the next cell we have to
cover this one as well, so this is the.
You can create a region like this.
And then becomes or this
region for this cell.
So in this region, um, we have deboor.
C bar and the row side.
The only thing matters is.
The value of B, which is always 0.
B bar. So you see that if you do
not consider the donkey condition
you come up with this circuit.
But if you consider the
donkey culture as one,
you become a small simplified.
A Boolean expression.
That's the amazing property
of the conditions.
At first we could say that the guy
that asked us to design A circuit was
incomplete and this question is not complete.
But we said that that's fine with us.
So we designed based on
the I mean the question,
or based on whatever we are asked to do.
But we exploit or we take advantage
of those outputs that are unknown.
And we assume that the other one help
us with more simplified circuit.
I. Tatiana says YB bar or
let me let me clear this one.
So if you go, if you go this way
without the don't count conditions,
so D is zero, always sees always
zero in this in this region.
Uh. B is always zero and a
is either zero or one.
That's why we have B bar.
Yeah, and The thing is that because
this region has only two cells,
so two is 2 to the power of 1.
It only removes one variable.
Nick asks if you had to make a
converter that goes between them.
Would you need to do this twice?
Is it easy to access three and then
the other one in the reverse order?
I'm not sure I understand your question.
So for instance,
if in another question you are asked to
do the conversion between X3 and BCD,
so the input is accessary,
the output is BCD, so the input.
Is accessory and the output is BCD,
then they don't care conditions different.
Because there are some cases that happens
in the input which are not valid excess 3.
As a result,
the output is not determined or unknown,
so you can use those as
they don't care condition.
So these those conditions are
only for BCD to excess three so.
Any question depended on condition.
You have to be careful.
First of all,
you may not have any don't care conditions.
Secondly,
for each question the only thing
that you can understand you can find
the condition is that if you cannot
specify the value for the output,
it means that that's the don't
care conditions.
But if you can't consider a value for that.
That's not a donkey condition,
so it depends on the question.
It depends on the design.
It's not always the same.
Even here,
sometimes for one output function
that don't care conditions,
let me back to the two table.
As you can see here, uh.
Or they don't care conditions for all
the four apples functions are the same,
but this is not always the case.
Sometimes for the first output function.
We may have, for instance,
here 001 one and then we have
only two don't care conditions,
but in the second output function
for instance,
I'm just saying as an example,
these are one one,
and then these are the don't care conditions.
So.
Sometimes even based on the
different output functions have
different country conditions.
Be careful about that.
And here is the simplified design.
So when you simplify the Boolean outputs.
So you can simply.
These are the inputs ABCD,
and these are the outputs W.
XYZ and these are the simplified design.
So this is not a very I mean beautiful
design because it doesn't follow our
two level designs and or that's why I
don't like this picture of the book.
But the way we design is based
on the first level or all.
And.
And then the second level are
just simple or one over.
But here is the design from the book.
Um?
And when we design the circuit,
we just wrap it as a box.
Kind of black box and then we can
say that we design A chip or an
icy or whatever block or whatever
second block we can call them.
This is a converted.
You buy it from the market,
you attach it to your circuit and this
circuit does the conversion for you.
So now Tatiana is actually a comment.
If you are asked to do the
design based on the maxterms.
So we know the midterms and based
on the lecture assignments and
practice that you've done before
the midterm and etc you I have.
I'm pretty sure that you know exactly
what is the design space on the Max terms,
so Max term is product of the.
Sorry, some of the products,
so if you want to put the Max terms here,
what would be the Max terms
anybody in the chat box?
Yes PLS. So what would you do POS?
What are the numbers here?
So based on what we said, Max terms are
those entries that makes the output 0.
So whatever makes the output is
one you do not consider them,
the else are those that makes the output 0.
So we see that what are the
terms are not in the midterms.
So what are the meter as
Nathan Phillips set so 01234?
These are the.
Cells or the outputs that are 0.
And these are the output that are one.
How about that? Don't care.
Conditions that don't care
condition or unknown.
So when we write it based on the Max
then we use the capital letter D as is.
So for MTR via small M for Maxim Capital M.
So the same is for they don't care condition.
So for this sum of meters used we show
them as the small D for the maximum
we show them as the capital D But
the main important thing is this.
The number of the doctors are the same.
Because these are the cells that
are known either zero or one,
there are unknown.
So in this case, as Tatiana said,
we can use them.
You can assume that there are zero and
then helps us for more simplification.
So.
Now we have to simplify based
on the maxterms,
so these are the cells that are one.
An others are the cells that
are 0 so 0123 and then four.
These are the. And in order to
simplify based on the Max terms,
we set that you can assume
that you're writing for F bar.
When you are simplifying or assuming
that you are writing for F4,
it means that all these zeros are one.
An all these ones are zero.
Because we are.
Trying to simplify for F bar,
not F, and then we simplify.
So the first region.
In this region,
the value of Amb is always zero.
The value of C&D doesn't matter
because either there are zero or one.
So it becomes a Barbie bar this cell
and then the next cell is this.
Which is Seaboard D bar and then
here we have the value of a /
0 able the value of P is either
zero or one doesn't matter.
But this is the simplified
version of the F bar.
Then we bring the bar inside the parenthesis.
Spidey Morgan's law.
And this is the simplified version.
In this case the.
Don't your conditions,
even if you assume that they are zero,
may not help you, you can try that and see
that if to assume that they don't care,
conditions are zero.
They help you feel more simplification or no.
This based on what I said.
Basically what I did, they don't.
Make more simplification.
The next one is about X,
so X this was based on the midterms.
Now those meetings that are
not one there are zero,
so these are the maxterms
plus the same dunkers.
An if you assume the if you right?
Simplify 4F bar.
You assume that these years are one.
You simplify, but The thing is that
you can assume that these don't care.
Conditions are in the Max terms are zero.
Then it helps for more simplification
and this is the simplified
version and in this case.
If you assume that they are 0.
It helps with this region also.
It helps with this region,
so in this case they don't care.
Condition helps us for more signification.
And there are two more I
want to ask you to do that.
So I already created a. Google Doc,
so I put the link in the chat box.
So please click on the link in
the chat box so I can see that
you're ready to solve this.
Let me know that you open the document
and you're able to open the document.
Oh yes, I can see that students are here.
So now you have to do the
same as I did for the Y&Z.
So bring a piece of paper and try to come
up with a simplified version for Y&Z.
But based on the maxterms.
Oh oh oh, the same as previous one.
So let me let me change the.
To the editor.
Now it's done. Try that now.
I think now you can do that.
So please do not mix with
each others an answer,
so just put you.
I mean design and then copy
paste your design here.
OK, now you can edit that. That's fine.
So what you do is that first of all
you have to draw the carnal map.
First of all you have to draw the
Boolean and you have to write
the Boolean expression based on
the Max terms and then draw the
came up with four variables and
then simplify that at final.
We have this simplified version
of the YXWNZ and then we can.
Sketch the design. So finally you sketch
the design and put the design here.
So Meanwhile I can do that with you.
So I can share my camera.
OK, so let me.
So.
Your 1059 I think you need only two 2.
3 minutes to solve this time at
most 5 minutes, so up until 11/5.
I hope that you can put your
answer in the Google sheet.
I mean while I'm trying to solve the.
Simplification with you as well.
OK, I think we are trying
to let me bring back to the.
This truth table.
So basically we have the truth table
for conversion between BCD to excess 3.
So far we design it based on the mid term,
so SOP and then simplify that.
Now we want to design it based on the
P OS or product of sums or match terms.
So these are the design based on the
aesopi and the simplified version.
Now we want to put the zombies on the
Max too, so. That's why we want to.
I mean, this is an alternative design
based on them actions, so let me.
So then why is?
Sigma, so do Y of.
ABCD. Is the midterms of
three 3/4? Seven and eight.
OK.
And then they don't care between 10 to 15.
So we want to design based on the Max terms,
so the maximum is going to be whatever
we don't have in the mid term,
so it becomes 0123456.
7-8 and nine and the others
are the Don't Cares from 10 to
15 because we write it for the
maximum we put the capital delete.
And now we have to put it the.
Use the five variable
for variable Connor map.
In the column side we have the CD
an in the row side we have the E.
AB. And the CD is 00011011
for the midterm 0123. 4534567
8 nine 1011. 1213 fourteen 15 the AB.
Here is a 0001. 1 zero and one one. And.
So the Max terms of the midterms
are once or zero is 1, three is 1/4.
Seven and eight is 1 and the others that
are not in the midterms or maxterm.
So this is 0. 060 nine is 0.
Five is zero, and they don't care from 10.
These are the don't cares.
1011 twelve, 1314, and 15.
So this is the four came
for variable came up for.
The output function Y.
We know how to simplify this on the midterms.
Now we want to simplify this on
the Max terms, so for the maxterms.
What we do is that basically we
assume that we are writing for.
F bar instead of FF bar. So as a result
we assume that the zeros are one.
Assume that the zeros are one,
and then we start to simplify that.
Also, these don't cares.
We can assume that they are
zero and then. So let's do that.
So we can assume that.
These X are also zero.
1st. And now we have to simplify.
So for the maxims we write it for F part.
If we do F4 of these two states,
this economy map, the zeros becomes one,
and then we do simplification,
so one region would be. This region.
One region would be.
This region.
One region would be.
This return.
And then one region would be. This region.
So we have to cover all the zeros.
So now we can.
Write it down also for this region
we can consider this is extra.
I think we can only consider this one.
Yes, I love this one.
So this is 1 Region 2.
Three and four. I believe.
Oh, that's that's the true thing,
yes, correct? Nick actually put the
because I made all the access zero.
That's why I have to cover the
access so you alright. So let me.
That's why I said do not make them zero.
Assume that they are zero, because if yes,
if you do the same as I did that end
up with the incorrect simplification.
So let's do that again so.
That's the true hand.
Yes, yeah, so 012345. 6-7 It's 9.
10 Eleven 1213 fourteen 15. ICDAB
the zeros are here is 0. 050
60 and then 90.
So these are their zeros
and they don't care, czar.
These are the don't cares.
So Nick is correct,
because if you assume that they are zero,
you have to cover them.
But the only thing that you have to cover
the the actual zeros so the actual zeros.
If you can say this, don't care at zero,
you can consider this as one region.
An if you can set these two as zeros.
You can create this region.
And as a result, you don't have to cover.
These don't cares because we can
assume that they are one and
you don't have to cover them.
So now we have to put them so in this region.
So this is 00. 011011.
00011011 So this is the region that.
The is 1C is 0 and the value of
A&B doesn't matter, so it becomes.
DC bar or? This region,
the value of Amb doesn't matter.
C is 1D is zero and then we bring the
knot inside so it becomes seaboard Y not.
And with C4C. Keyboard not,
and then we bring the North
inside it becomes C or D bar.
And with sibor or tea.
And you have to do the same with the Z.
So I just have to remove it.
I leave the answer there, so this is the why.
Now we have to do the same for Z.
I'll say in this is YZ is better
0246 and eight plus don't care.
10 to 15. So in terms of maxterms
it becomes 0123456789 and then
they don't care from 10 to 15.
And you have to go to the corner map with.
Four variable. Sorry steadi AB.
011011. These are the midterms.
Midterms 01234567. 8-9 ten
11-12 thirteen 1415 and the.
Values for the zeros are.
1/3 5, seven and nine and they don't cares.
Are 1011 twelve, 1314 and 15.
So here in order to.
Come up with the as you can see here.
If you assume that this is 0,
this is zero, and this is also zero.
You create a huge region. Here.
So. The function becomes Z.
We write for F bar,
so this region in this region
the value of a B doesn't matter.
The value of C doesn't matter because it's
either zero or one so and also it's a 8 cell,
8 is 2 to the power of three.
So three variables gonna be removed.
So the only thing matters is
the value of the which is 1.
Followed by the nut which is the bar.
So let's see your answers in the Google Doc.
We have Philip yes correct.
We have Chris. For the why?
The bar and the ball correct for the Zeke.
Yes, and and then you have to design it.
That's fine, so I I I see that everybody
is correct in the Google Doc awesome.
Isn't it the?
No D bar because The thing is that
you are simplified based on maximum,
so I have to assume that the zeros or one.
So you write it for F4 which makes
the zeros one and then simplify that.
So the this is the region for the.
Followed by the not so the County bar.
Yeah, OK. Actually it wasn't that easy.
I thought it just takes 5 minutes
but it takes 15 minutes.
OK, so let's back to the slides.
Share my screen.
I just wanted to show that how
we simplify be with the K map.
Also how to use the.
Don't care condition and thank you Nick,
to remind me that that's a trick.
Very very tricky thing that if you
if you put all the X is 0 or all the
X is 1 then you have to cover all
these cells that are not necessary
so you don't have to cover the sets.
For donkeys you have to consider
you gotta cover the cells that
are actually 0 or actually one.
Yeah. So these are the tricks
that happens when you practice.
Let's continue.
Nathan had a question about midterm 1.
Uh. Where? Oh, let me back to the.
I have a question about the midterm one key.
OK sure, we question 10.
OK we can go after the class.
So based on this idea that we design
you can design any code conversions.
So from X F32 BCD BCD to a can a kid?
Hey, can't you access 3 or whatever
combinations that you assume
you put one code in the input,
one code in the output and you
design the circuit either based
on the SOP or based on the P OS.
Using the don't care condition,
but be careful. Don't care,
conditions are not the same in these designs.
They may different an one more
thing is that if you use Gray code,
be careful about the Gray code.
Great quote If cricket happens in the input.
There might be no don't care conditions
because the Gray code are valid for
all the possible values in the input.
However,
if the great code goes to the outfit,
it means that the input,
for instance, is BTD,
or the input is exit 3,
but the output is great code because some
possibilities for the input is not valid.
As a result,
we cannot have a great code in the output,
so be careful about the Gray code.
And, uh. And one of the
practice in the question.
Of the book is called 7 segment decoder,
so we said that encoding means
that from one code to another,
code decoding is the vice versa.
But there's another special type
of decoder which we call that.
Seven segment decoder.
Why you called this seven segment?
Because if you see any digital,
I mean a surface that shows some numbers.
These are the elements.
For instance, if you attach.
These are the LED that if
you make it 1 they turn on.
If you make it 0 they turn off.
So because these elements are only 7,
seven of them. So one abcdefg.
These are 7LED parts.
If you make them all one,
it turns on all of them.
But if you turn off some of
them and turn on some of them,
it shows some numbers.
As you can see here.
If you turn on B and 10 on C,
But you turn off all the other elements,
it shows the number one.
The same for the number 9.
For instance, if you turn on all of them,
but you turn off E,
it shows the number 9.
So now the question is that.
How we can show the number?
Based on the seven segment decoder,
if we input a number in any of these codes,
for instance,
if the input number is in the BCD code.
The output wants to show the
digital number for that,
but based on this turning on
and turning off these leads.
I put here a sample road map how
to design such a circuit because
let's back to the R Calculator.
In any Calculator you see this part.
As you can see, the display part,
the display part shows the result
and the result is the input.
The user inputs the digits in the decimal
digit and the user sees the result
in decimal system in decimal digits.
But inside the Calculator the calculation
happens in binary codes, so that's why.
At first, when they music input the digits
in decimal based on pressing the keys,
we convert to these codes.
Finally, after the calculation we want
to show their result to the user.
So we have to come up with.
Let me back to.
You have to come up with this decoder.
Fine to show the final result.
To as a display a part of the result.
So we called this display decoder and
now we have to design this part as well.
So this is an exercise in the book,
but you can see these slides
to help you how to design that.
So imagine this is just one.
Unit of the display for the Calculator.
You input for instance the number in BCD,
for instance 0101,
which is the binary code for five.
Now you have to turn on which
elements you have to turn on the
element that shows the number 5.
So you have to turn on this element
this element, this this and this.
To show you the five and you have to
turn off this element so these elements
are zero and these elements are one.
How can we do that?
This is a normal design for
binary variable in the input.
How many variables in the output 7 outputs.
So now you have 7 output functions.
You have to pick a name for
each of these output functions.
ABC, an, etc.
And then write Boolean expression for
each of these variables ABC up until G.
So you have five Boolean expressions.
You have to simplify each of
them so you have 7 corner map.
And then you have to simplify
that and then design this second.
These are some examples.
For instance,
if the input is the binary #0
you you make the output one.
An only the Apple G is 0.
So my question from you is that
how many rows the truth table have?
If you want to create the truth table.
So how many variables you have in the input,
how many variables you have in the output?
It is very clear that the number
of input variables are for,
so you have four variable in the input.
But how many variables
you have in the output?
Correct 7 so ABC up until G.
So we have 8. Column or eight out
of functions and then row by row.
You have 16 Rose Ann.
For each row you have to determine
the value of the output.
For instance, one of the rows is 0110,
which is the binary code 4646.
How you sure you show the
value of the Six 6 is?
This one.
Yes, you have to make a one.
This is the BBO. And the.
So the ABC DEF and then G.
So you have to turn on all of them.
The only thing that you
have to turn off is B.
So in the output you have to put 110.
111 up until G1.
So you fill out the truth
table and then you design.
SOP for each of the output functions.
An attach.
This is the design for seven
segment decoder to display
the number to the user.
If the input is exit 3 the same, so you
have to design 7 segment decoder for XF.
For example, if in the input is 7.
Because X S3 is plus three,
so you have to minus three.
7 -- 3 becomes 4,
so you show four in the output.
An attach. Amazing question.
Is that what I'll be doing?
3 conditions in the Seven segment
decoder you have to determine each.
Code in the input have its own.
Don't care conditions and etc.
And the one thing actually leaves is that
now that we know how to input the digits
from the keyboard of the Calculator,
we know how to show the result in the
display based on the Seven segment decoder.
Internally, how the calculation happens
in binary system or in the decimal system?
So I leave it as a access.
I mean as a extra reading for
you in the book.
In these pages you can see that how
the edition in Calculator is designed.
For the is very simple Calculator,
but we are not designing calculated.
It just shows that it helps us that the
immediate computer system was calculators.
Now we move on to the computer
system which are more complex.
And that's it.
I'm done.
Sorry about the wait.
I leave the slides in the blackboard and
I'm ready to take your questions now.
Thank you so much for your attendance
and have a great day. Take care.
Thank you all. Thank you last China.
Thank you. You too have a great weekend.
Actually we have one day up
until weekend, but anyways. Oh
translate yes on the most common.
You can see that I mean.
Whenever you see there is a
digital display in any circuits,
that's the 70 that space whenever you see.
Ed. Digital display it means that behind
the ad there is a seven segment decoder.
This is one thing that you can see,
but The thing is that you your
question might be right because you
can say that even nowadays we use
the excess three or BCD or whatever.
For calculators today to be
honest I can say no,
but I'm not sure about that because
in the next few slides we see that.
At the first, whenever the information
gonna be in the computer system,
we bring it to the binary system.
As a result, we don't need to
encode the input into these codes,
it can code excess 3 code and etc.
So we'll see that all the
arithmetic in the computer systems
are happening in binary system,
and even for the keyboard that we type.
We assign a binary code instead
of just a decimal code for that.
As a result of these codes may not be
helpful anymore into this computer systems,
but it's still.
It gives us some idea that how we
can design more complex circuits
for us so you can see these
code conversions as a practice.
For designing digital elements, yeah.
Yeah.
You're welcome, Ehsan, and have a
great day, so Nathan have a question.
In question 10, the answer states if
one is 123, why is meeting for not?
In here so question 10 off the
midterm exam, you mean yes, Nathan?
Oh, let me let me open the exam first.
I totally. I cannot remember it.
Let me stop this presentation.
And then open the exam.
So the last one. So I just
opened one of these keys.
The last one. OK here. For the F1.
Oh, that's that's a typo.
Yes, you are right,
you have to include that, correct?
Yes, I have to include the four as well.
Thank you, thank you,
noting that correctness and I
have to fix the key. Because, uh.
F1A2 complementar so if you
have 100 it becomes.
001 you're right, you're totally right.
Yes, I'll fix the key and
an update the new file.
We have to include the
midterm 4 as well, yes.
Next time Steven.
I have to check with the marker.
I hope that doesn't affect any marks.
But I have to check with the
markets I have to ask them that.
Basically I changed the key and
then I talked to them that.
Whether any case that,
uh, they deduce them,
or because of that or no,
and then they will fix that.
By now I I don't know,
but I hope it doesn't affect that.
But anyways,
even if there is an effect on that,
they will reverse that
or at the worst case,
if you see that I will make
an announcement and then if.
If somebody actually.
I will lose any mark about that, uh?
Uh, this link and talk with the
market to fix that for the F2.
F2. Correct for the F as well,
yes Oh my goodness.
I was checked, it is.
Yes this is 1/2 and then five and six.
Uh. We missed two.
We have to add 2 as well, yes?
Each of them has four midterms,
but here I missed that too, yes?
Yeah, correct, correct Nathan.
Thank you so much for bringing
this up to me. Thank you.
OK.
And the strange thing is that
none of the markers actually.
I found this. Because, uh,
they just look at the keys instead of
checking the key and then start marking?
Yeah, that's that's strange.
OK, have a great day too. You too.
So I'm going to end the recording.